

\section{From DoDI 5000.97 BELOW:}

G.2. DEFINITIONS.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this issuance.
TERM DEFINITION
analytical framework A structured and logical approach that serves as a foundation and
starting point for conducting data analysis.
authoritative source
of truth
The reference point for models and data across the system life cycle.
The authoritative source of truth provides traceability as the system
evolves, capturing historical knowledge and connecting
configuration controlled versions of models and data.
configuration
management
Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary.
data attributes The quantitative or qualitative characteristics of a data element.
DoDI 5000.97, December 21, 2023
GLOSSARY 19
TERM DEFINITION
digital artifact A product or output, in computer (i.e., digital) format, created within
or generated from the digital engineering ecosystem. Digital artifacts
provide data for alternative views to visualize, communicate, and
deliver data, information, and knowledge to stakeholders.
digital engineering Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary.
digital engineering
capability
The ability to develop, validate, use, curate, and maintain technically
accurate digital systems and models of systems, subsystems, and
their components, at the appropriate level of fidelity to ensure test
activities adequately simulate the environment in which a system
will be deployed.
digital engineering
ecosystem
Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary.
digital model A digital (i.e., in an electronic form, able to be read and manipulated
by computer) representation of an object, phenomenon, process, or
system. The representation can include form, attributes, and
functions and may be depicted visually or described via
mathematical or logical expressions.
digital thread An extensible and configurable analytical framework that seamlessly
expedites the controlled interplay of technical data, software,
information, and knowledge in the digital engineering ecosystem,
based on the established requirements, architectures, formats, and
rules for building digital models. It is used to inform decision
makers throughout a system’s life cycle by providing the capability
to access, integrate, and transform data into actionable information.
digital twin A computerized representation (integrated set of models) that serves
as the real-time digital counterpart of a physical object or process.
extensible Capable of being extended, particularly to add new capabilities and
functionality.
logical expressions A statement that evaluates to true or false.
MBSE The formalized application of modeling to support system
requirements, design, analysis, verification, and validation activities
beginning in the conceptual design phase and continuing throughout
development and later system life-cycle phases.
DoDI 5000.97, December 21, 2023
GLOSSARY 20
TERM DEFINITION
model Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary.
modeling language A set of rule-based graphical or text expressions used to
communicate the form, attributes, and functions of an object,
process, phenomenon, or system.
modular open
systems approach
An acquisition and design strategy consisting of a technical
architecture that uses system interfaces compliant with widely
supported and consensus-based standards (if available and suitable).
The strategy supports a modular, loosely coupled and highly
cohesive system structure that allows severable system components
at the appropriate level to be incrementally added, removed, or
replaced throughout the life cycle of a system platform to afford
opportunities for enhanced competition and innovation.
penetration testing A test methodology in which assessors, typically working under
specific constraints, attempt to circumvent or defeat the security
features of a system, in accordance with National Institute of
Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-53, Revision 5.
personally
identifiable
information
Defined in Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-130.
red team An ad-hoc organizational element that provides an independent
capability to fully explore alternatives in plans and operations in the
context of the operational environment and from the perspective of
adversaries and others.
simulation Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary.
user The human(s) who operates, maintains, trains, and supports the
equipment, system, or facility. Includes the definition of “end user”
in DoDI 5000.87.
ZT Defined in the Defense Acquisition University Glossary